.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''

---

**Service Status**
Please review the following:

-  For service issues or 5xx errors, first, go to the [IBM Cloud status page](https://cloud.ibm.com/status?component=compare-comply%2Cdiscovery%2Cconversation%2Cwatson-vision-combined%2Cnatural-language-understanding%2Cnatural-language-classifier%2Clanguage-translator%2Cpersonality-insights%2Cspeech-to-text%2Ctext-to-speech%2Ctone-analyzer&selected=status) and check the status of the service.
-  If the service status is OK, continue with a bug report.

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is. 

**To Reproduce**
Steps to reproduce the behavior:

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Actual behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

**Desktop (please complete the following information):**
 - OS: [e.g. iOS]
 - Ruby Version

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.

Commit message:

docs: update instructions on where to ask questions

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''

---

Remember, an issue is not the place to ask questions. If you have issues with the APIs or have a question about the Watson services, see [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ibm-watson+ruby).

Before you open an issue, please check if a similar issue already exists or has been closed before.

**Service Status**
Please review the following:

-  For service issues or 5xx errors, first, go to the [IBM Cloud status page](https://cloud.ibm.com/status?component=compare-comply%2Cdiscovery%2Cconversation%2Cwatson-vision-combined%2Cnatural-language-understanding%2Cnatural-language-classifier%2Clanguage-translator%2Cpersonality-insights%2Cspeech-to-text%2Ctext-to-speech%2Ctone-analyzer&selected=status) and check the status of the service.
-  If the service status is OK, continue with a bug report.

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is. 

**To Reproduce**
Steps to reproduce the behavior:

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Actual behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

**Desktop (please complete the following information):**
 - OS: [e.g. iOS]
 - Ruby Version

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.
